= README

== Demo

http://rails-app-starter-kit.herokuapp.com

Please treat any data (posts, users etc.) as transient. These may not be
available after a certain period of time.

For accessing via native apps, the app access token is z23498f58959thf85.
See the 'Access from Native Apps' section for details.

== About This Project

A starter kit for creating applications using the Postgres, Rails and Angular
stack, with the following features built-in:

1. Rails ~4.2, Angular ~1.2 (and we recommend Ruby >=2.1.2)
1. Postgres support
1. Complete user management, with authentication and role-based authorization
1. Complete user upload management via an attachment library
1. User authentication via Facebook and other providers
1. Front-end asset management using Bower
1. Angular-based routing
1. Angular-based flash messages
1. Angular interfacing with server CSRF protection and server form validation
1. Secure API-based access for native apps
1. Rails code testing using RSpec and other best practices
1. Angular and JS code testing using Teaspoon
1. Integration with the Bootstrap styling framework
1. Admin app for administrators (coming soon)
1. Ready-to-deploy on Heroku

Several ideas have been taken from http://angular-rails.com.

See Gemfile.lock for each gem's version. We recommend using these versions, or
newer, for best results.

If you wish to change the Ruby version, remember to also do so in the Gemfile
(near the top).

== Setting Up

Pre-requisites: You must have Node, Bower and Ruby installed.

1. Download or clone this repo
1. Run the following commands in the application's root directory:

    $ bundle install

   This should set up all the gems required. Note: Installing the pg gem can be
   a pain. See http://stackoverflow.com/questions/19262312/installing-pg-gem-failure-to-build-native-extension
   for help.

    $ rake bower:install

   This should set up all the front-end assets required.

1. Create two databases named as follows, or edit /config/database.yml to suit
   your needs, and then create the appropriate databases:
   * rails-app-starter-kit_development (for developing)
   * rails-app-starter-kit_test (for testing)

   Also change the production database details, either now, or before you wish
   to push your app to production. If you use Heroku, these details will be
   overridden anyway, but its still a good idea to change them.

1. Run the following command:

    $ rake db:migrate

   This will set up the required tables in the database.

1. Change the session key in /config/initializers/session_store.rb to suit your
   application.

1. If you wish to allow authentication via Facebook, create a Facebook app if
   you haven't already, and set the following environment variables:

    FACEBOOK_APP_ID=<Your Facebook App ID>
    FACEBOOK_APP_SECRET=<Your Facebook App Secret>

   If you don't want this functionality, do the following:
   * Comment out the ':omniauthable...' line in /app/models/user.rb
   * Comment out the 'controllers:...' line with the 'devise_for' directive in
     /config/routes.rb

1. If you wish to allow API-based access for native apps, set the following
   environment variable:

    APP_ACCESS_TOKEN=<Some random string>

   You must then send this token with each request, in the 'X-App-Access-Token'
   header.

1. If you wish to user the attachment library, set the following environment
   variables:

    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<Your AWS Access Key ID>
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<Your AWS Secret Access Key>
    AWS_REGION=<The AWS region you are operating out of>
    AWS_S3_BUCKET=<The S3 bucket you want to store your uploads in>
    AWS_CF_KEY_PAIR_ID=<The CloudFront Key Pair Id>
    AWS_CF_PRIVATE_KEY=<Contents of the Key Pair .pem file (see below)>
    AWS_CF_DISTRIBUTION=<The CloudFront distribution linked to the bucket,
      starting with the protocol (http:// or https://)>

   And only for production, set this too:

    DRAGONFLY_CDN=<The CDN used to serve Dragonfly (gem) processed images such
      as thumbnails etc.>

   The origin of the Dragonfly CDN must be the domain name of your app.

   We recommend you provision an AWS IAM user with limited permissions, so that
   all unrelated AWS data remains secure. These permissions must of course
   include uploading and deleting objects from the bucket.

   Also ensure that the bucket allows CORS, including the DELETE method:
   http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/cors.html

   Our opinionated view is that S3 objects must always be accessed through
   CloudFront, rather than directly. To set up CloudFront, see:
   http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/PrivateContent.html

   Also create a CloudFront Key Pair, to be used for generating signed URLS for
   protected access to your S3 objects. This Key Pair will be available for
   download as a .pem file.

   Set AWS_CF_PRIVATE_KEY to the entire contents of the .pem file as one long
   string, manually inserting '\n' at the end of each line.

== App Structure

The application structure is similar to a standard Rails app, with certain
additions, a sampling of which is shown below:

  app
   |- assets
       |- javascripts
           |- admin (for the admin app)
           |- client (for the main 'non-admin' app)
           |- shared (common to main and admin app)
               |- angular (contains all Angular code)
                   |- app.js (the 'entry point' for Angular)
                   |- routes.js.erb
                   |- controllers
                   |- directives
                   |- modules (self-contained 'packages' of functionality)
           |- templates (contains all Angular templates, i.e. views)
               |- admin
               |- client
               |- shared
       |- stylesheets (contains all CSS styles)
   |- controllers
       |- admin (all admin controllers)
       |- home_controller.rb (the 'entry point' controller)
   |- jobs (contains all background jobs)
   |- policies (access authorization policies)
       |- admin (all admin authorization policies)
   |- views
       |- admin (all admin views)
       |- home
           |- index.html (the 'entry point' view)
  spec (contains all tests)
   |- support (utility stuff for testing)
   |- javascripts (contains all JS and Angular tests)
  vendor
   |- assets
       |- bower_components (all front-end components mananged by Bower)

The 'admin' folders contain files related to the admin app. This will be
discussed towards the end of this README. Until then, the sections below are
written from the point of view of the client (i.e. main or 'non-admin') part of
the app. As it happens much of this information also holds true for the admin
app!

== Dev Tools

=== Rails Generators

Rails generators have been configured not to generate non-useful files such as
assets, helpers, views, or view specs. This is because we are using Angular as
our main MVC framework and not Rails.

=== Model Annotation

We use the 'annotate' gem to add column information to models. Without this, it
is difficult to know at a glance the columns within a model table. Run this gem
generally after you run a migration, as follows:

  $ annotate --position before

=== Front-end Asset Management

Normally, Rails does asset management from within the (/app/lib/vendor)/assets
folders. However, because we are supporting very 'front-end heavy' applications,
we use Bower, which is the most widely used such tool. We use the 'bower-rails'
gem for this purpose. See the following for more information:
* http://bower.io
* https://github.com/42dev/bower-rails

To add/remove front-end libraries, add-to/remove-from the /bower.json file the
required library or libraries. Then run:

  $ rake bower:install

Also remember to reference/de-reference the relevant files in application.js,
and/or application.css.

=== Testing

We use RSpec (instead of the default TestUnit) for Rails code testing.
See the following for more information:
* https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails
* http://rspec.info

We use FactoryGirl for creating real or mock objects required for testing.
See the following for more information:
* https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl/blob/master/GETTING_STARTED.md
* https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl_rails

We use Teaspoon (which supports several test frameworks - Jasmine, Mocha and
QUnit) for JS and Angular code testing. See
https://github.com/modeset/teaspoon for more information.

For a detailed discussion on testing, see the Testing section later on.

== Out-of-the-box Functionality

=== Authentication

Authentication is done via the 'devise' gem (see
https://github.com/plataformatec/devise). Users are stored in the 'User' model.

The entire devise workflow is, after weighing the pros and cons, deliberately
kept outside of Angular. See
https://medium.com/opinionated-angularjs/techniques-for-authentication-in-angularjs-applications-7bbf0346acec
for a detailed discussion; note however that our implementation is different.
Relevant files in our implementation are:
* /app/assets/javascripts/shared/angular/directives/authentication_links.js
* /app/controllers/application_controller (the 'set_sign_in_redirect' method)
* All devise related files, of course

In the JS and Angular code, the currently signed in user details are available
through the 'AuthSvc' service. We have also provided helper methods to control
access to certain routes. See the following for more details:
* /app/assets/javascripts/client/angular/routes.js
* /app/assets/javascripts/shared/angular/services/auth_svc.js

==== Authentication via Facebook

We also provide authentication with Facebook out of the box, as well as easy
integration of other providers such as Google, Twitter and more.

See the 'Setting Up' section for how to enable Facebook authentication.

==== Authentication via Other Providers

COMING SOON...

=== Authorization

Authorization in the Ruby code is done via two gems:
* rolify[https://github.com/RolifyCommunity/rolify]: For assigning roles to
  users
* pundit[https://github.com/elabs/pundit]: For authorizing actions based on
  roles

Authorization policies are placed in /app/policies.

In JS and Angular code, role-based authorization has been implemented to the
extent of route access. See the Authentication section above.

=== Attachment Library

Most applications need some way of:
1. Storing files uploaded by users
2. Associating these uploads with models (for example, an attachment to a post,
   a user profile pic etc.

We provide a full featured, flexible solution right out of the box!

The only catch is that we use FineUploader[http://fineuploader.com/] to carry
out the actual uploads. If you're not developing an open-source application, a
license must be purchased.

Attachments belong to users. Users only ever have access to their own
attachments. Each attachment can be attached to multiple objects - there is a
many to many relationship between attachments and what they are attached to.

See the following for more information:

* Client-side code:
  * /app/assets/javascripts/shared/angular/modules/attachment_library/
  * /app/assets/javascripts/client/angular/controllers/app_ctrl.js

* Server-side code:
  * /app/models/attachment.rb
  * /app/models/attachment_join.rb
  * /app/controllers/attachments_controller.rb
  * /app/controllers/attachment_joins_controller.rb
  * /app/controllers/fine_uploader_controller.rb
  * /app/policies/* (namesake policies for above controllers)
  * /config/routes.rb

=== Form Submission

Form validation should generally take place at the Angular end. However, this
may not always be possible, and you may choose to leave some validation
exclusively on the server-side.

We provide a clean integration between Angular form validation and server-side
form validation via the 'formErrors' directive. See
/app/assets/javascripts/shared/angular/directives/form_errors.js.

=== Background Jobs

We provide DelayedJob for running background jobs. For most apps, this is
sufficient. However, switching to Resque, Sidekiq etc. is very easy, since the
actual jobs can be written using the Rails 4.2 ActiveJob "facade". For more
information see:
* http://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/active_job_basics.html
* https://github.com/collectiveidea/delayed_job

=== Bootstrap Styling

We include Bootstrap as the styling library of choice. Unlike other front-end
assets, we include it as a gem, rather than through Bower, as this allows for
much easier integration and customization.

To reduce the application size, comment out the modules you don't require in
these two files:
* assets/stylesheets/bootstrap-custom.scss
* assets/javascripts/bootstrap-custom.js

We also provide some guidelines on how to structure CSS/SCSS files. For more
information see:
* http://getbootstrap.com
* https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap-sass

=== Access from Native Apps

Secure access from native apps is achieved by requiring an 'app access token'
along with each request, in the 'X-App-Access-Token' header. Remember to carry
out all communication over HTTPS, to prevent the access token from being
sniffed.

See the 'Setting Up' section for how to create a valid app access token.

Errors from any endpoint can be in one of the following two formats:

  { "error": "some error" }

  OR

  { "errors": { "some-key": "some error", ... } }

==== User Registration

New users can be registered via the following endpoint:

  /api/users/sign_up

The following information needs to be sent:

  {
    user: {
      "email": "some@email.com",
      "password": "somepassword"
    }
  }

If the user is registered successfully, the user's details are returned, as
follows:

  {
    user: {
      "id": 434899 (for example),
      "email": "some@email.com",
      "confirmed": false (or true),
      "authentication_token": "sometoken" (if authenticated after creation)
    }
  }

To delete a user, send a DELETE request to the following endpoint:

  /api/users

Deletion only succeeds in one case: a signed in user deleting itself.

See the following files for more:
* /app/controllers/api/users/registrations_controller.rb
* /app/views/api/users/registrations/create.json.jbuilder

==== Authentication via Password

To authenticate a user with an email and password, send a request identical to
the regitsration request, to the following endpoint:

  /api/users/sign_in

If the user is authenticated successfully, the user's details are returned as
follows:

  {
    user: {
      "id": 434899,
      "email: "some@email.com,
      "authentication_token": "sometoken"
    }
  }

==== Authentication via Facebook (or Other Provider)

To authenticate a user via Facebook or another provider, send a request to the
same endpoint, as follows:

  {
    user: {
      "provider": "facebook" (or other),
      "uid": 12309939 (i.e. the provider's ID for the user),
      "email": "some@email.com"
    }
  }

If a user corresponding to the provider and UID exists, it is signed in.
Otherwise, a new user is created using the email address provided, and if the
user creation is successful, is signed in. The response is as above.

For more on both password and provider based authentication, see:
* /app/controllers/api/users/sessions_controller.rb
* /app/views/api/users/sessions/create.json.jbuilder

==== Authenticated Requests

To make an authenticated request to any endpoint, include the user's email and
authentication token (see above) in the following request headers:
* X-User-Email
* X-User-Authentication-Token

== Testing in Detail

=== Testing Rails Code

Testing is a vast subject, best learnt from hands-on experience.
See the following for ideas on how to get started:
* https://github.com/howaboutwe/rspec-style-guide
* http://dhartweg.roon.io/rspec-testing-for-a-json-api

==== Mock Objects

Most tests require the use of real or mock objects against which tests can be
run. We use FactoryGirl and rspec-mocks for creating such objects. Each has its
advantages, and when to choose which is beautifully explained here:
http://www.agileventures.org/articles/testing-with-rspec-stubs-mocks-factories-what-to-choose.

==== User Authentication

Many controller tests require a user (possibly having certain roles) to be
signed in. We have provided integration with devise for easy authentication.
See the following for more information:
* /spec/factories/users.rb
* /spec/support/controller_macros.rb

==== Authorization Policy Testing

We provide an easy way to test authorization policies generated using pundit.
See /spec/support/pundit_matcher.rb for relevant RSpec matchers.

Authorization policy tests are placed in /spec/policies.

=== Testing JS and Angular Code

Coming soon.

== Admin App for Administrators

Coming soon.

We have tried to keep the admin app as separate from the client (main) app as
possible.

The admin landing page has its own layout, so in theory, one can use a
completely different set of front-end tools for it. However, to get you started,
we provide a skeleton app using many of the same libraries as the client app.

The code is organized as follows:
* All admin related server-side code lives within 'admin' folders.
* All admin related front-end code lives 'admin' folders in app/assets. Here,
  the only difference is that the client app code is put into 'client' folders,
  and the shared code in 'shared' folders. This enables easy inclusion of
  desired files into the client/admin application.(js/scss) files.

Rails models are typically shared between the client and admin apps. However,
controllers and views are separate.

=== jQuery DataTables

DataTables forms an integral part of the admin app, giving admins the ability to
filter, sort and edit data conveniently.

It is included directly from a CDN, and not through the asset pipeline, since
the latter results in complications, and the former seems to suffice. See
/app/views/layouts/admin/application.html.erb.

For more on DataTables, see http://datatables.net.

== Contributing/Using

=== Creating a CRUD Resource

1. Run:

    rails g resource Widget (substitute Widget with resource name)

   OR

    rails g model Widget
    rails g controller Widgets

1. Edit the /config/routes.rb file
1. Write some model unit tests. For reference see:
   * /spec/models/post_spec.rb
   * /spec/factories/posts.rb
1. Write some model functionality
1. Create an authorization policy. For reference see
   /app/policies/post_policy.rb.
1. Write some controller unit tests. For reference see
   /spec/controllers/posts_controller_spec.rb.
1. Write some authorization policy tests. For reference see
   /spec/policies/post_policy_spec.rb.
1. Write some controller functionality
1. Write the server views (which basically render out responses as JSON). For
   reference, see /app/views/posts/index.json.jbuilder. JBuilder
   (https://github.com/rails/jbuilder) comes bundled with Rails, and is a much
   better way to create JSON, than using the 'as_json' method.
1. Create an Angular resource to communicate with the controller. See
   /app/assets/javascripts/shared/angular/services/post.js.
1. Create an Angular controller that uses the resource. For reference see
   /app/assets/javascripts/client/angular/controllers/posts_ctrl.js.
1. Write some Angular controller unit tests. For reference see
   /app/spec/javascripts/client/controllers/home_ctrl_spec.js.
1. Create an Angular view (template). For reference see
   /app/assets/javascripts/templates/client/controllers/posts/index.html.
1. Update the /app/assets/javascripts/client/angular/routes.js file
1. Create any directives that may be required for the view
1. Write some directive unit tests

=== Common Server Tasks

==== Rendering a JSON Error Msg for Any Controller Action

When creating an API, you will likely want to render JSON error messages in a
consistent format, from any controller action.

The 'render_op_error' method defined in the application controller lets you do
this in a flexible manner, and even supports localization.

See its documentation here: /app/controllers/application_controller.rb.

=== Common Client Tasks

==== Formatting Dates and Times

This is a very common task, for which we use the excellent
Moment.js[http://momentjs.com] library. We generally prefer the format 'LLL'
(see their home page for information) or similar, since it is locale-based, and
not hard-coded.

For a usage example, see
/app/assets/javascripts/admin/angular/controllers/posts_ctrl.js.

=== Common Angular Tasks

==== Exposing Some Data to All Controllers

It can sometimes be useful to expose some data or service to all controllers
(and consequently views). One example is the 'AuthSvc', since most controllers
and views are likely to use authentication services in one way or another; for
example, showing an 'Edit' link for a post only for the owner of the post.

This can be done in the 'AppCtrl', our Angular equivalent of Rails'
ApplicationController. Anything added to its scope becomes available to every
controller and view.

See /app/assets/javascripts/client/angular/controllers/app_ctrl.js.

=== Coding Style Conventions

==== General

1. Lines are kept within 80 characters
1. 2 spaces are used as tabs, with 4 spaces for continuation

==== Comments

1. Ruby comments are compatible with Yard.
   For more information, see:
   * http://yardoc.org/index.html
   * http://tech.pro/tutorial/1363/documenting-your-ruby-code-with-yard

1. General Rules
   1. Single-line-single-sentence comments do not end with a full-stop
   1. Multiple-line or multiple-sentence comments end with a full-stop
   1. All comments are in sentence case
   1. Multiple-line comments can be written using the /*..*/ style, in which
      case, the opening /* must be an empty line

== Appendix

Contains everything that didn't fit in anywhere else on this README.

=== This README

This README is compatible with RDoc.

=== Useful Links

1. {RDoc Markup reference}[http://docs.seattlerb.org/rdoc/RDoc/Markup.html]
1. {HTTP codes and their Rails symbols}[https://github.com/rack/rack/blob/1.5.2/lib/rack/utils.rb#L544]
